I'm going to be showing you how to use
the databases,
which provides you with access to
hundreds of different journals and
thousands of different articles and book
chapters, which will be very,
very valuable for when you're doing
research for assignments.
So this is a tool that you must learn how
to use as a student because it is going
to be vital that you do research of your
own and that you use research that is
credible and academic.
And these databases that are provided by
Unisa to us for free are excellent
resources for researching.
We are actually very fortunate that Unisa
provides us access to all of these
journals and articles for free because
otherwise they are very expensive to
access.
So please make sure that you understand
how to access the databases and that you
make sure that you are using them
regularly as a place to do your research
for your assignments throughout your
academic career.
So I'm going to show you how to use those
in this video.
It's very easy once you get to know how
to use them.
So the first thing we'll do is you can
see we're on the Myunisa page.
You're going to click on Library,
which will open a new page.
So as you can see,
we are now on the library page.
There is a lot of information on this
page,
so please make sure that you go through
it carefully and that you look at all the
resources that are supplied to you by the
library.
They are very useful for you as a student
and will help you be more successful in
your university career.
So please take full advantage of all of
the resources that are supplied to you or
provided to you by the university.
You can see that it offers services for
new students, for undergraduate students.
If you have any special needs,
the library can assist you and there's a
lot of information on here.
So there's various kinds of training that
are offered by the library.
So please make sure that you do go look
through this page and see what is
available to you through the library site.
I am, however,
not going to focus on any of that for
this video.
Instead we are going to focus here on
finding E resources.
So you will see here in this area you
will click on Find E Resources.
This will open a new tab and once it is
opened you will see this page.
So you can see here that it says A-Z
databases.
So that is where you want to be.
You can also see that it provides you
information for how to access the
databases for the first time.
So you will need to follow these steps in
order to have access to the databases and
the the library resources.
So it says, yeah, as a university student,
you need to as a Unisa student,
you need to use your student number as
the username to log in and your my life
password.
I'm already logged in so I don't have to
go through that step today.
So we won't see that in this video,
but that is how you will access the
database is how you will log in.
If you have any difficulties logging in
or need any assistance with using the
databases,
please e-mail this library e-mail address
and they will be able to assist you.
So once we are here in the A-Z databases,
you can see there is a lot of information.
Firstly,
you can see there's all these search
options for you.
You can see there's feature databases,
there are child databases,
there are helpful links.
So there's a lot of information and it
can seem a little bit overwhelming when
you first start to use these databases,
but please don't let it put you off using
them.
They are very simple to use once you know
what you're doing,
once you have a very basic idea of how to
use them.
So firstly, let's just look.
Here we are.
We are seeing all the databases that are
available.
You can choose by alphabetical order or
by choose a letter of the alphabet to
narrow down the databases that you are
looking at because you'll see there are
591 databases available to you.
However, again,
just keep it simple for now.
We'll just stick with all and you'll see
that we are seeing the letter A for now,
and there are many different databases
which give you an explanation of what
those databases are about or what kinds
of topics they cover.
So you can see here that this ABI Inform
Global covers specifically business
periodicals and Business Research topics.
So that might not be so useful for your
purposes.
We can Scroll down and we'll see here
that this Access engineering obviously
focuses on engineering articles and
engineering information.
So again,
that might not be relevant to you.
This database looks at newspapers at
local, regional, national,
and international levels.
So if you wanted information that was
specifically in a newspaper,
this might be a database that you would
look at.
So play around on the site to see which
databases might be most relevant for you.
There are databases specifically for
philosophy,
and if you wanted to look for those you
could then go here and type in the
subject or look for the subject of
philosophy and then narrow down the
search using those.
However, as new users of the database,
I always suggest that you use a
multidisciplinary database.
So here we can see Academic Search
Ultimate.
This is a multidisciplinary full text
database containing full text for more
than 4600 journals.
So what multidisciplinary means is it
covers a broad range of subjects and this
database specifically contains full text
articles, chapters, etcetera.
So that's very important because there
are some databases that will only give
you access to abstracts for articles or
summaries of book chapters,
or even only just the bibliographic
information of an article or chapter or
book.
And then you would have to go look on
another database for the full text,
so for the whole article or the whole
chapter.
So when you're searching,
especially at this stage,
it is best to look for ones that offer
full text.
And this particular database is one of my
favorite to use.
It's the one I use most often.
It's very easy to use,
although most of them,
once you have an idea of how to use one,
they basically all work the same.
But this one covers such a broad range of
topics and I find it one of the most
useful ones to use.
So we'll look at this one today in this
video.
So we click there and again,
it opens in another tab.
So then you'll see once it's opened,
it will take you to this page,
you will see that you have your own
dashboard where you can create projects
for yourself.
You can save items onto your dashboard,
It can show you the recent activity,
You can set up alerts for specific kinds
of articles.
But again,
you might not be comfortable doing those
at this stage.
So once you're more comfortable,
those are some of the things that you
might look at doing.
Here we have our search bar and you can
see that there are again,
various options to narrow down your
searches.
To filter your search,
you might want to look at only peer
reviewed, only full text, but again,
this is all full text.
You might want to look at specific
publication dates,
which is not always necessary for
philosophy,
but if you were doing something like
computer science,
you might want only the most recent
articles.
Then you could narrow it down.
You can look at publication types,
you can look for specific languages.
So there are ways to narrow down your
search so that you get fewer results when
you do your search.
But again, for at this stage,
try and just keep it as uncomplicated as
possible.
So we are going to search for in this
video, Plato's Theory of Forms.
So we can see it even comes up there for
us.
Again,
you could narrow down here if you wanted
to specifically look for one author,
if you wanted to look for certain just
subject terms, etcetera.
You could also say Plato's Theory of the
Forms and Allegory of The Cave,
which would then give you only articles
that discuss Plato's Theory of the Forms
and the Allegory of The Cave.
Or you could say Plato's Theory of Forms
or the Allegory of The Cave.
Then it would give you articles that
showed you Theory of the Forms or
Allegory of The Cave.
Or you might say Plato's Theory of Forms,
not Allegory of The Cave.
Then it would show you only articles that
discuss the Theory of Forms and that do
not discuss anything about the Allegory
of The Cave.
Once again, we're just keeping it simple.
We're going to search Plato's theory of
forms.
We will click search and it will bring up
this page so we can see now that 50
results have come up.
Sometimes you will get hundreds of
results and then you might need to try
and filter down your search and narrow it
down a little bit so this isn't too many.
So we can just look through these for now.
Obviously we won't look through all of
them.
Something important that I want you to
take note of is what it says at the top
of each of the listed options.
So you can see here that this says review.
Now,
a review is when somebody has written a
review of another book,
another person's book.
So they are not always very useful for
your purposes of assignment writing
because they just give an explanation of
the book and a review of that book that
has been written.
If we Scroll down, we can see here,
for example,
that this says it's a peer reviewed
article in an academic journal.
So that is more along the lines of what
you're going to be looking for.
Remember,
peer reviewed means that it has gone
through a process where the article or
chapter has been submitted to a journal
or a book and then it has been sent out
to other people in the field who are
knowledgeable.
So in the case of philosophy,
it might have been sent to other
philosophy lecturers or professors who
will have read through the article.
Given extensive feedback to the author,
the article may then have been revised
and resubmitted.
But this process ensures that the
information that is contained in the
article is reliable and that it's
accurate.
And so that is the kind of information
that you are looking for.
So This is why we say to you that you
shouldn't use things that are,
for example blogs or on Wikipedia or use
YouTube videos as sources in your
assessments because those are not peer
reviewed sources.
So in a blog or on Wikipedia,
anyone can write what they want.
It is not checked to see if it is
credible, if the information is accurate,
if it is reliable.
So those are why we don't consider those
good academic sources.
But the information that you find on
these databases is generally good
information from good academic sources.
So that is what you'll be looking for.
So again,
you can see there are a lot of different
options to look at.
So we're just going to go here.
We'll go to this article.
You can see it's an article,
you can see the author where the journals
was published in, when it was published.
And then importantly,
you see a summary or an abstract of the
article.
You can also see subjects that are
contained within the article or that the
article relates to.
So it's very,
very important that you always read the
summary or the abstract because this
tells you what the article is about.
You don't want to go and read articles
that are 20 to 30 pages long and only
once you've read 30 pages realize that it
is not relevant to the assessment you are
doing or the information isn't anything
related to what you are writing about,
then you've wasted your time.
So you rather want to look for articles
that are relevant to what you are doing.
So here we can see that this article
talks about Plato's theory of the forms.
It's a novel interpretation,
so this might not be exactly what you
want for your purposes,
but this is just to show you how to
access it.
So we can either click here,
which will then open all of the
information about the article.
You can also click on related items,
which will show you other articles that
have similar contents or similar subject
matter.
So you can go through those and that can
help you to look for other articles that
might be useful for you.
But for now, we'll stay on details.
Again, here's the abstract,
but we're we're going to click now is
access now and this will open a new tab
again.
And in this tab it opens a PDF document.
So you can then go and read the article.
I always suggest that you first scroll
through the article,
skim over it quickly to again,
make sure that it is an article that is
relevant for you.
You can also begin by reading the
abstract, the introduction,
and the conclusion so that you know that
this is something that you should be
reading.
Once you know you want to read it,
you can either read it here and do
markups on this online document,
or you can download it, share it,
whatever you want to do once you have
this document open.
So that's one way that you can find the
articles.
Another way that you might find is if we
go back to our search.
So we'll just go back here.
Sometimes you will see that you're given
access options, so you can click there.
OK, this is only the full text,
so let's look at another one.
Again, full text.
All the ones we're seeing are only full
text here.
OK,
here you can see you can either open a
PDF or you can open an online full text
which will then open another screen and
it will give you this table of contents
on the side to be able to navigate
through the document.
So there are various ways of opening the
documents.
Most often it will be a PDF,
but sometimes there will be other things
like an online text or it will take you
to a different page where you'll have to
download it from there.
So if you click on Show more results,
then you will see other results.
Now for example,
here we can see that's in Greek.
So maybe you want to rule those out.
You want to only look for English or
whatever language.
So you can then just scroll through and
see and look for what is most valuable
for you.
Again,
if you wanted to save it to your page or
your dashboard,
you would click on this little icon to
save it.
And there are tools here.
It would show you how to site it,
share it, download it.
So let's just click on site because this
is useful for you for when you are doing
your referencing.
You can see here you would select the
style.
So we want Harvard.
And then it gives you this citation and
you can copy that and then paste that
into your document,
into your Word document for your
bibliography.
So that's something very useful for you.
Obviously only for the articles that are
already referenced in the body of your
answer.
Don't just randomly copy references and
stick them into your bibliography just to
make up a bibliography.
Only use ones that have been included in
your actual answer,
but this can be a way to help you then do
your referencing.
OK, so let me just show you that again,
if you use this this article,
you would click here and say site and it
would give you the information you would
choose the correct style,
which for us is Harvard.
So it should change it,
which it's not right now did earlier.
So I'm not sure why it is not changing
right now.
It could just be the network.
Let's just see.
OK, so now it's changing.
Let's see Harvard again.
There we go.
And you could copy to clipboard or you
could highlight and copy it.
OK,
so that is basically how to use the
database.
Again, you could look for other.
Let's say we wanted to look at
metaphysics, Metaphysics,
we could search for that.
Then you see we get almost 20,000 results.
So here you might want to narrow down
your search because that is a lot of
results to go through.
OK.
But again, you can see academic journals,
so you know, this is good information.
OK,
so I won't go through all of this again.
Again,
PDF online full text you can instead of.
If you don't want to open the all the
detailed information,
you can just click on Access now and it
will open the PDF immediately.
Hey, and there we have the PDF.
We can see this is not in English or it's
in two more than one language.
So the while the abstract at least is in
English and another language.
So this might become difficult.
So this might not be an article that you
want,
but just so that you can see how it works.
And then we can go back to our search.
So something else I just want to show you
is if you use Google Scholar,
because Google Scholar is obviously also
a very useful and reliable search engine
because it gives you academic articles.
So we'll end book chapters.
So we'll go here to Google Scholar.
So I have gone to Google Scholar by
typing Google Scholar into my Google
search engine.
You can get to it however you want to.
For the purposes of the video,
I've already done a search for South
African philosophy.
You will see that for a lot of them,
it will open either an HTML or it will
give you the PDF.
So that's very useful because then you
can get those articles.
Sometimes, however, you will see,
for example, here, it's a book,
an introduction to African philosophy.
It's not going to give you a PDF or take
you to another page where you can access
the article or the chapter.
So what you can do then is, for example,
let's open this because we can see that
it doesn't have an attached PDF or option
to open the chapter.
We can see that it's a chapter.
We can see the pages.
We can see it's in this book.
Methods,
Substance and the Future of African
Philosophy.
There are ways to access the chapter via
your institution,
but often we aren't able to access it
from this page.
At times you can, but not always.
And you can see if you want to buy the
book as AE publication or APDF,
you're going to have to pay €13 or
subscribe to the journal for €32.
00 a month.
So that's a very expensive.
So we obviously don't want to do that
because we have the accessibility through
the university.
So we're going to copy this title.
So I've highlighted it and said control C
or you can say right click and say copy.
And then what I'm going to do is go back
to the library page.
So this remember where we started on the
library page.
So we're back on the library page here.
Now in search Unisa Resources,
we are going to paste this title of the
chapter and see what comes up.
Now as a note,
you're not always going to have access to
everything.
Unisa does not have access to every
single journal.
Not every book is available as a free
ebook or a free chapter.
So you're not going to be able to access
everything, unfortunately.
But there are enough resources,
more than enough that you will never get
through all of them,
that are useful for your purposes.
So we put it there and we say search and
we'll see what comes up.
So we just got to wait for the page to
load and here we can see that this book
comes up.
So remember,
this is the title of the book that the
chapter was in.
And we can see that if there's a full
text online or it's available at the
library as a hard copy,
you can see other books come up that are
perhaps similar in the topics are similar.
Again, full text online,
which we're very fortunate to be able to
have these full text available to us.
So we're going to here,
we see we've got the book here,
so we're going to click on the ebook and
we'll say full text online.
It again opens a new tab,
so we'll let that load.
It now wants me to log in because we're
using the library site.
So they are putting my information and
it's now going to transfer us and we'll
see what comes up when it opens.
So we can see now that it has opened the
ebook.
So you can access the ebook or you can
download, but take note here,
you can only download 15 pages at a time.
So you cannot download the whole ebook.
You also can't copy and paste from the
book,
but you can download 15 pages of the book
at a time if you wanted to.
So we can either access the ebook now.
So let's click on that so you can see
what happens then.
We've just got to give it a little bit of
time.
We'll just close that so you can see
better.
OK,
so here we now have we'll close that as
well.
We now have the whole ebook,
so you would be able to read it online
here on the right hand side.
Here we have the table of contents.
So it's easy for you to navigate through
the book.
So we don't want to look at everything.
We want to look at this,
the particular chapter that we found
about the state of African philosophy,
which you would have to look,
navigate through the table of contents to
find it.
However, I know that I've already looked,
so I know it's Chapter 5.
Otherwise,
you could go through this contents page,
see.
OK, it's in Chapter 5.
So that's where we want to go in Part 1.
So we go there and we click on Chapter 5
and then again you are able to navigate
through the chapter itself on the right
hand side.
You can download if you click on this
little icon here,
you could download the chapter.
But again,
remember only 15 pages at a time.
So perhaps there's a particular part of
the chapter,
a particular section of the chapter that
is important to you.
You could download that, but otherwise,
you can read it online, you can save it,
you can share it so that you can find it
easily.
So there are options for you to make it
easier.
So here we see, we've got the chapter.
We would be able to read it if we wanted
to just look at the conclusion,
for example,
we could navigate there and then we could
read the conclusion.
So that is another way that you can
access resources that you might find on
Google Scholar that are not available
immediately on Google Scholar.
So sometimes you will also find it with
articles.
Generally these days,
most articles are available on Google
Scholar as a PDF or through another HTML
page.
But sometimes you will find articles or
book chapters that aren't available there.
And then like I showed you, you can go to,
let me just show you again,
you can search the UNICER resources to
try and find them there.
So let's just look at one more example
and see if that works.
So let's go back to we had,
we searched for South African philosophy.
So let's see, you see,
all of these are available as PDFs.
So you could open those.
So let's just see if this is available.
You see now it might not be,
but we'll copy it and paste and see if it
is available through UNIOSA.
So we'll search and we'll wait for the
options.
So again,
we're lucky here that this one is
available as a full text online.
So we can click there full text online.
It takes us to the new tab.
We'll give it a little bit of time to
open and again here we can see the
information for the book.
We can open it as AE publication or a PDF
full text.
So let's open the PDF for now.
OK, we'll give it a little bit of time.
But again,
here on the right hand side you can see
the you can navigate through the chapters.
So let's say for example,
we wanted to just look at foundations of
modern African philosophy.
We could come to that page,
we could click on the icon to download it.
We'll see.
Once you've clicked on the icon to
download,
it tells you that the number of pages
available to download is 60.
But you can see here that because chapter
2 is only 14 pages,
you can download the whole chapter,
which is fantastic if that is what you're
looking for.
So then you would just click download
again, you'd give it a little bit of time,
and then you could save it to your device.
So I won't save that,
but that's another way that you can
access resources that are useful for your
studies.
So I hope that this video has helped you
to understand how to use the databases
and how to use Google Scholar as very
important resources for your studies and
for accessing information for your
assessments.
And again, remember that these are good,
credible academic sources.
So please rely on these rather than
relying on sources like Wikipedia, blogs,
videos that we don't know if they're
reliable, credible and accurate.
If you have any questions,
please feel free to e-mail me or send me
a message on my Unisa.
And remember,
if you need any assistance accessing the
databases or using the library site,
please get in touch with the library.
And please look through all of those
resources that are provided by the
library as they will really make a
difference to your academic career and to
helping you be successful through
university.